>> Richard Feldman: Any questions
before we get to the exercise?
>> Student 1: Elm.Main.embed
versus Elm.Main.init?
>> Richard Feldman: So back in Elm 0.18,
there was an Elm.Main.embed.
In 0.19, that changed too.
We always say .init and
init can take different arguments.
So I guess the answer is
that it's always in it now,
but previously there used to be
different variations on that.
>> Student 1: Regarding Elm packages,
I've seen some reference to
star.dat files on Evan's disk.
Is there any relationship with IPVFS or
the DAT protocol?
>> Richard Feldman: No,
.dat is essentially just a file extension
indicating that it's binary data.
So those are all just
cached files that live in,
you never actually
interact with .dat files.
It's just like when the compiler runs,
it caches some information
in a temporary directory so
that the next time it runs it doesn't
have to recompute that from scratch.
And because it's more compact to store it
as binary data than like JSON, it stores
them as binary data and it chooses
to use the extension .dat for that.
That's all.
>> Richard Feldman: So you won't
actually ever necessarily interact with
dot dot files unless you're writing
some tooling for Elm maybe.
What is the learning curve for
Elm when your training new employees?
So I would say.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Student 1: Or just said learning curve
in general for Elm.
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah,
well hopefully we'll get an idea of that
over the course of today.
[LAUGH] But so what I would say is that
usually people can get productive to
the point of just through pair
programming and sort of picking stuff up.
They can get to the point of being able to
write Elm code unsupervised in their first
week if you're pairing it and
sort of investing and,
like, actually teaching them some stuff.
And not just saying,
okay, go read the docs.
You're on your own.
I found pair programming
is really effective for
helping people get up to speed.
But I would say that they're going to have
a lot of questions at first, of course.
So if they're modifying existing code,
like doing a bug fix,
that can be potentially pretty easy
depending on what the bug fix is.
If it's just some business logic.
But I would say that it takes longer
to of course achieve mastery.
And to sort of build your
own things from scratch,
build new features from scratch
to understand how to do things.
The compiler helps a lot.
That's a recurring theme is that it's
a lot harder to do the wrong thing and
end up with the wrong
output because most of
the beginner mistakes you can make
will get caught by the compiler.
So I don't know if I can put a number on
and say the learning curve of Elm is this,
but hopefully that gives an idea
of sort of the considerations.
>> Student 1: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Richard Feldman: All right, yeah.
>> Student 2: I don't think I've seen
anything, but is there anything for
source maps or any kind of like
community thought around source maps?
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah, so
I always forget about source maps
because like we don't get real text.
[LAUGH] So the two things that
source maps would be useful for.
One is like browser profiling,
like flame graphs and stuff.
Like having those actually mapped to
the the original Elm functions rather
than the generated ones.
It's kind of nice to have.
It doesn't really exist yet
because it just hasn't really
been a high priority project.
And the other is, what is it?
If you want to do step
debugging in the browser, like,
if you want to say pause execution and
then step step step.
Right now you do that on the generator
JavaScript, but if you had source maps,
you could theoretically do it
using the actual source out code.
So both of those are kind
of narrow use cases.
So they haven't really been a priority,
but in principle there's no reason they
couldn't exist except just that
other stuff's been higher priority.
Yeah?
>> Student 1: So what is the process for
changing the language itself.
And is it like community driven or
is it like this Evan guy in
a cave somewhere meditating-
>> Richard Feldman: [LAUGH]
>> Student 1: And comes up with the next
feature.
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah, so
Elm definitely has the BDFL,
the Benevolent Dictator for Life model.
I think,
that was Python's term originally.
Although I guess now Guido retired,
[LAUGH] so
they now have a different model.
But, yeah, so Elm actually works.
Sorry, Evan works on Elm at No Red Ink.
We hired him in 2016.
So it's not in the cave,
it's in an office in Boston.
[LAUGH] But basically we just
pay him to build the language.
And so we've made a very direct
financial investment in Open-source.
Cuz we wanted to give back and for
variety of reasons, but basically, yeah,
he's sort of like
the ultimate decision maker.
There is a core team of people
who work on different things.
Obviously there is lots of
community input into the decisions,
but at the end of the day, it's not like,
there's no voting process.
So there's no committee for
change requests and stuff like that.
It's very like, Evan makes the decisions
like at the end of the day.